Replace apt-key with signed-by in Debian install instructions (#106)
ansible/ansible-documentation: docs/docsite/rst/installation_guide/installation_distros.rst

.. note:: On older Ubuntu distributions, "software-properties-common" is called "python-software-properties". You may want to use ``apt-get`` rather than ``apt`` in older versions. Also, be aware that only newer distributions (that is, 18.04, 18.10, and later) have a ``-u`` or ``--update`` flag. Adjust your script as needed.

Please file issues `here <https://github.com/ansible-community/ppa/issues>`_.

Installing Ansible on Debian
----------------------------

While Ansible is available from the `main Debian repository <https://packages.debian.org/stable/ansible>`_, it can be out-of-date.

To get a more recent version Debian users can use the Ubuntu PPA according to the following table:

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Debian
    -
    - Ubuntu
    - UBUNTU_CODENAME
  * - Debian 12 (Bookworm)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy)
    - jammy
  * - Debian 11 (Bullseye)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal)
    - focal
  * - Debian 10 (Buster)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic)
    - bionic

Run the following commands to add the repository and install Ansible.
Replace the export of UBUNTU_CODENAME as per the table above (in this example we use jammy).

.. code-block:: bash

>     $ UBUNTU_CODENAME=jammy

Reviewer: Would it make sense to suggest installing `wget` and `gnupg` as well?

```suggestion
    $ sudo apt install wget gnupg
    $ UBUNTU_CODENAME=jammy
```

>     $ export UBUNTU_CODENAME=jammy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    $ UBUNTU_CODENAME=jammy
```

.. note:: On older Ubuntu distributions, "software-properties-common" is called "python-software-properties". You may want to use ``apt-get`` rather than ``apt`` in older versions. Also, be aware that only newer distributions (that is, 18.04, 18.10, and later) have a ``-u`` or ``--update`` flag. Adjust your script as needed.

> Please file issues `here <https://github.com/ansible-community/ppa/issues>`_.

Reviewer: @samccann often says that using undescriptive link references poses accessibility issues, so let's avoid that.

```suggestion
Please file issues in ` the PPA's issue tracker <https://github.com/ansible-community/ppa/issues>`_.
```

Installing Ansible on Debian
----------------------------

While Ansible is available from the `main Debian repository <https://packages.debian.org/stable/ansible>`_, it can be out-of-date.

> To get a more recent version Debian users can use the Ubuntu PPA according to the following table:

Reviewer: Use a comma after an introductory clause.

```suggestion
To get a more recent version, Debian users can use the Ubuntu PPA according to the following table:
```

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Debian
    -
    - Ubuntu
    - UBUNTU_CODENAME
  * - Debian 12 (Bookworm)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy)

>     - jammy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``jammy``
```

  * - Debian 11 (Bullseye)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal)

>     - focal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``focal``
```

  * - Debian 10 (Buster)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic)

>     - bionic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - ``bionic``
```

> In the following we assume that you have installed wget and gpg (`sudo apt install wget gpg`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we assume that you have installed wget and gpg (``sudo apt install wget gpg``).
```

Run the following commands to add the repository and install Ansible.

> Replace the export of UBUNTU_CODENAME as per the table above (in this example we use jammy).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set ``UBUNTU_CODENAME`` as per the table above (we use ``jammy`` in this example).
```

.. code-block:: bash

    $ UBUNTU_CODENAME=jammy
    $ wget -O- "https://keyserver.ubuntu.com/pks/lookup?fingerprint=on&op=get&search=0x6125E2A8C77F2818FB7BD15B93C4A3FD7BB9C367" | sudo gpg --dearmour -o /usr/share/keyrings/ansible-archive-keyring.gpg
    $ echo "deb [signed-by=/usr/share/keyrings/ansible-archive-keyring.gpg] http://ppa.launchpad.net/ansible/ansible/ubuntu $UBUNTU_CODENAME main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/ansible.list
    $ sudo apt update && sudo apt install ansible

Note: the " " around the keyserver URL are important.
Around the "echo deb" it is important to use " " rather than ' '.

These commands download the signing key and add an entry to apt's sources pointing to the PPA.

> Previously you may haved used `apt-key add`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, you may have used ``apt-key add``.
```

This is now `deprecated <https://manpages.debian.org/testing/apt/apt-key.8.en.html>`_
for security reasons (on Debian, Ubuntu, and elsewhere).

> For more details see `this AskUbuntu post <https://askubuntu.com/a/1307181>`_.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more details, see `this AskUbuntu post <https://askubuntu.com/a/1307181>`_.
```

> Also note that for security reasons we do NOT add the key to `/etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/` or `/etc/apt/trusted.gpg` where it would be allowed to sign releases from ANY repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also note that, for security reasons, we do NOT add the key to ``/etc/apt/trusted.gpg.d/`` or ``/etc/apt/trusted.gpg`` where it would be allowed to sign releases from ANY repository.
```

.. note:: On older Ubuntu distributions, "software-properties-common" is called "python-software-properties". You may want to use ``apt-get`` rather than ``apt`` in older versions. Also, be aware that only newer distributions (that is, 18.04, 18.10, and later) have a ``-u`` or ``--update`` flag. Adjust your script as needed.

> Please file issues in `the PPA's issue tracker <https://github.com/ansible-community/ppa/issues>`_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
File any issues in `the PPA's issue tracker <https://github.com/ansible-community/ppa/issues>`_.
```

Installing Ansible on Debian
----------------------------

> While Ansible is available from the `main Debian repository <https://packages.debian.org/stable/ansible>`_, it can be out-of-date.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While Ansible is available from the `main Debian repository <https://packages.debian.org/stable/ansible>`_, it can be out of date.
```

To get a more recent version, Debian users can use the Ubuntu PPA according to the following table:

.. list-table::
  :header-rows: 1

  * - Debian
    -
    - Ubuntu
    - UBUNTU_CODENAME
  * - Debian 12 (Bookworm)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 22.04 (Jammy)
    - ``jammy``
  * - Debian 11 (Bullseye)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 20.04 (Focal)
    - ``focal``
  * - Debian 10 (Buster)
    - ->
    - Ubuntu 18.04 (Bionic)
    - ``bionic``

In the following example, we assume that you have wget and gpg already installed (``sudo apt install wget gpg``).

Run the following commands to add the repository and install Ansible.

> Set ``UBUNTU_CODENAME=...`` as per the table above (we use ``jammy`` in this example).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Set ``UBUNTU_CODENAME=...`` based on the table above (we use ``jammy`` in this example).
```
